# OtterTwin
Predictive Digital twin of USV with Actuator Fault Diagnosis 


#Abstract
Systems of the present day are getting increasingly complex with a higher degree of autonomy performing safety critical tasks.Digital twins, that are capable of rep- resenting these systems digitally throughout their life-cycle, are slowly replacing traditional simulation models.Technologies like IoT, ML, AI and Cloud Computing are making this possible faster that ever. Digital twins are already a reality in many industries showing their technical and commercial potential. On the other hand, Unmanned Surface Vehicles(USV) - a type of marine autonomous systems are get- ting popular in the robotics community for their ability to operate in complex and remote environments.This makes them suitable candidates for digital twin devel- opment. However, to the author’s knowledge, the power of digital twins has not yet been fully realized in case of USVs. The current thesis addresses this gap with an aim to develop a digital twin for Otter - an Unmanned Surface Vehicle from Maritime Robotics, Norway. In doing so, two objectives are considered. Firstly, ‘Probabilistic Graphical Models’ are used as a mathematical framework for the digital twin due to their capability of handling complexity and uncertainty of sys- tems. Also, these models provides a general framework that can accommodate dif- ferent modelling techniques making them suitable for several digital twin applica- tions. Secondly, the above framework is used to perform ’Actuator Fault Diagnosis’ on Otter’s actuators as a demonstrative application of the digital twin.Necessary theoretical treatment is given to both the above concepts.Faults were introduced into the actuator subsystem by means of a broken port side propeller and exper- iments were conducted on both the faulty and faultless Otter. Subsequently, the faults were identified using an Adaptive Extended Kalman Filter algorithm with promising results.The results are thoroughly discussed with regards to both their meaning and the value they add in the context of digital twins.Finally, recom- mendations for future work are made.
